PRC Payroll System Generator
				        River Jordan Fontanilla 
			              University of the Cordillera 
Introduction
The PRC Payroll System Generator was developed through the coordination of Ma’am Jovy Anongos to help the tedious tasks of payrolls. The problem was that there are processes in giving payrolls that were repetitive and difficult once there are changes. It was also expressed that the specific features were also desired to overall help with the accessibility and convenience. When designing, the developer followed the specifications of Ma’am Anongos citing the flow and structure of the process. The developer then researched existing payroll system to try and understand the process along with the given specifications. Upon understanding the process and functions of a payroll system, the developer then proceeded to start the design and plan for the system.

Design/development principles
There were several tools that can be used for development but the developer was most comfortable with the use of python, even though it is not the best optimally for building a software application, the developer figured that if the application was light and not overly sophisticated, the development and outcome will still have a positive outcome. Although, compilation time and speed is expected to be slow, the result should be that the time difference between the different languages should not be significantly different than the other. Consulting different sources that the build may be possible and the overall comfort and familiarity of the user with python, the developer then proceeded to design the system interface. When designing, the developer approached the project design with the most of simplicity. Even when prioritizing simplicity, the developer still applied some design to be able to be distinguishable and pleasing as possible. The developer tried to minimize visual artifacts, to also focus the time instead to the project optimizations and build of excel like functions which was initially harder to replicate especially the table logic.

The table which was one of the hardest to implement, was based on the excel table function and design as close as possible. The column headers and row headers were also implemented to be able to distinguish cell index especially when importing.  The unique index address is also the way how the details of the other functions like for the later reports and generate payslip retrieve their data from the table. The table can be manipulated either with cell editing, or column/row addition and subtraction. The table when importing from an excel file, is automatically saved to the history page which will be discussed later, that is saved and available for access. Once the table is populated, it dynamically distributes the relevant data to the reports table, and generate payslip table. This fixes the problem of the tedious procedures by dynamically populating the data, which is then is saved. If adjustments are necessary, the tables can be flexibly adjusted to the user’s specifications as long as the table index population settings (adjust, adjust payslip) is configured to the new specifications, it should work as expected.
